YOLO Blog #1: YOLO for Biomedical Images | by Johanna Jones | Medium Open in app Sign up Sign in Write Sign up Sign in YOLO Blog #1: YOLO for Biomedical Images The place of YOLO in object detection tasks for biomedical images Johanna Jones Follow 5 min read · Jun 14, 2024 -- Listen Share Cell Counting and Detection are important tasks in medicine and biology, which aid pathologists in understanding how cells behave to diagnose disease. Traditionally, pathologists were counting and detecting cells manually but this can lead to a high level of error and subjectivity, which is not something we want in sensitive scenarios like disease diagnosis. Therefore, they have turned to deep learning to count and detect cells for them. Even so, these biomedical images present a number of challenges for the deep learning algorithms to learn and make predictions well. 3 Challenges presented to ML and DL algorithms Overlapped and clustered cells make it difficult for algorithms to properly segment the image and distinguish cell from cell. Weakly stained cells create difficulties for the model to distinguish artefact noise and the image background from the target cells. Diverse cell morphologies prevent the algorithm from generalising more broadly and making predictions. CNNs and other deep learning techniques are already being implemented within the field. However, these solutions are unique to the domain and have bespoke datasets ultimately, not offering a whole lot of generalisability within biomedicine. In this blog post, I want to touch on the existing studies that have used YOLO and the gaps they have. I also want to touch on the different YOLO models currently out there and their key features. What is YOLO? No, its not the risk inspiring and motivating YOLO (You Only live Once… But in the words of Dwight Schrute ‘ False, you live every day. You only die once ’ but I digress), this YOLO is different. You Only Look Once, is a state of the art object detection algorithm that leverages CNNs to detect objects in real time. It is a single shot detector that passes an image through the CNN once, producing classifications and bounding boxes of the objects within that image. YOLO has demonstrated a high level of generalisability and versa- tility in a variety of domains such as security, crowd and trac monitoring, often out- performing Region-based CNNs and Single Shot detectors.First built in 2015, the framework has undergone continuous modifications and improvements to achieve better performance. As of June 2024, I believe YOLOv10 is the latest release. For the upcoming blogs, my focus will only be on YOLO versions 5, 8 and 9. In general there are three main components to YOLO’s architecture YOLO basic architecture Backbone: The backbone is responsible for extracting valuable characteristics and then generating feature maps from the input image. A CNN that has been extensively pre- trained on large image datasets is commonly used for the backbone. Popular choices for backbones include VGG16, ResNet50, CSP-Darknet53 and EffcientRep Neck: The neck is made up of two components; the Spatial Pyramid Pooling (SPP) and Path Aggregation Network (PAN). Both components work to combine the extracted feature maps generated by the backbone through a process of feature aggregation and propagate them to the head. Head : The head handles the aggregated features from the neck and makes predictions on the image relating to the bounding boxes coordinate estimates, classification scores class probabilities . Often, studies have tried different combinations of backbones, necks, and heads to investigate model speed, accuracy, and detection performance. YOLO heads are also interchangeable across different YOLO models. YOLO in Biomedical Images A list of related work where YOLO has been used detect cells. Existing studies relating to YOLO detecting on biomedical images revolve around assessing different model’s speed and accuracy (see the above table). Nair (2021) deployed a YOLOv4 model for mitotic nuclei detection in breast cancer histopathological images. While a computationally efficient and reasonably fast, the study suffered in model performance when given pixel and colour normalised images and was deemed unsuitable for full scale deployment. In another study, Topuz (2023) deployed YOLO models V3, V5, V7 and V8 to compare how accurately each could detect mitosis cells as an indicator for lung cancer. Models V7 and V8 outperformed others in correctly detecting mitosis cells despite the data imbalance and low-quality input images. V7 and V8 exhibited higher performance due to a combination of higher image resolution processing, improved module innovations and new loss functions. Others have performed ablation studies to determine which components of YOLO’s architecture yield the best detection results. Alam and Islam (2019) deployed a Tiny YOLO model to count and detect blood cells by replacing the primary backbone of the YOLO model with other CNN architectures like VGG-16, ResNet50 and Mobile Net. Results showed that the standalone Tiny YOLO drastically outper- formed the other CNN architectures and generalised well to unseen data sets. Yucel (2023) compared the performance of a YOLOv5 (baseline) to a YOLOv5 with a transformer mechanism (transformer) to detect mitosis cells in neuroendocrine tumours, with the aim of creating a high speed and accurate detector. Results showed that the transformer consistently detected more mitosis cells than the baseline and image augmen- tation techniques also boosted the transformer model’s speed and accuracy. While these YOLO models have been chosen for their accuracy and speed, they do not explicitly address the challenges of overlapped cells, diverse cell morphologies or weakly stained cells. Therefore, I would like to see how different YOLO versions perform on a given dataset and the extent to which they can addresss those challenges. Summary of YOLO versions to date. In my next blog, I’ll cover the dataset available and any EDA I performed. Stay tuned! Don’t forget to YOLO :) All work is sourced from my paper : Analysis of different YOLO variants Yolo Object Detection Biomedical Data Science Deep Learning Follow Written by Johanna Jones 9 Followers · 7 Following I am a Masters Student, studying a Masters in Data Science. I am in my final year of study looking to explore new ideas and share them. Follow No responses yet Help Status About Careers Press Blog Privacy Rules Terms Text to speech