Inspirational Quotes About Life
 
By 
​
GraciousQuotes.com
​
 (PREMIUM)
 
 
It is not how long but how well we live that matters.
 
Jeremiah Say
 
 
Life is not a solo but a chorus. We live in relationships from cradle to grave.
 
Anon.
 
 
Life is worth living better than most men live it.
 
Anon.
 
 
Live your best, and act your best, and think your best each day, for there may be no
 
tomorrows.
 
Anon.
 
 
Everything in life is a test of character.
 
John Blanchard
 
 
Life ought not merely to contain acts of worship, it should be an act of worship.
 
John Blanchard
 
 
Be such a man, and live such a life, that if every man were such as you, and every life
 
a life like yours, this earth would be God’s paradise.
 
Phillips Brooks
 
 
The quality of life is more important than life itself.
 
Alexis Carrel
 
 
Life is too short to be small.
 
Benjamin Disraeli
 
 
The man who regards his own life and that of his fellow creatures as meaningless is
 
not merely unfortunate but almost disqualified for life.
 
Albert Einstein
 
 
What makes life dreary is absence of motive. What makes life complicated is
 
multiplicity of motive. What makes life victorious is singleness of motive.
 
George Eliot
 
 
Life is not measured by length but by depth. Birthdays tell us how long we have been
 
on the road, not how far we have travelled.
 
Vance Havner
 
 
Every man’s life is his opportunity of doing that which will make for him in eternity.
 
Matthew Henry
 
 
Sow an action and you reap a habit; sow a habit and you reap a character; sow a
 
character and you reap a destiny.
 
William James
 
 
The most important thing in life is to live your life for something more important
 
than your life.
 
William James
 
 
The end of life is not to be happy, nor to achieve pleasure and avoid pain, but to do
 
the will of God, come what may.
 
Martin Luther King
 
 
Make sure the thing you are living for is worth dying for.
 
Charles Mayes
 
 
The seven ages of man: spills, drills, thrills, bills, ills, pills, wills.
 
Richard J. Needham
 
 
We are here to add what we can to life, not to get what we can from it.
 
William Osler
 
 
The whole of life is a test, a trial of what is in us, so arranged by God himself.
 
William S. Plumer
 
 
We are not so to live as if we had nothing but a body.
 
J. C. Ryle
 
 
The two most important days in your life are the day you are born and the day you
 
find out why.
 
Mark Twain
 
 
We should employ our passions in the service of life, not spend life in the service of
 
our passions.
 
Richard Steele
 
 
Let us live as people who are prepared to die, and die as people who are prepared to
 
live.
 
James S. Stewart
 
 
Let us endeavour so to live that when we come to die even the undertaker will be
 
sorry.
 
Mark Twain
 
 
No one can live well until they can die well.
 
David Watson
 
 
Take care of your life and the Lord will take care of your death.
 
George Whitefield
 
 
Death is not the greatest loss in life. The greatest loss is what dies inside us while we
 
live.
 
Norman Cousins
 
 
Life can only be enjoyed as one acquires a true perspective of life and death and of
 
the real purpose of life.
 
Spiros Zodhiates
 
 
If you want to live a happy life, tie it to a goal, not to people or things.
 
 
Albert Einstein
 
 
Three things in life – your health, your mission, and the people you love. That’s it.
 
Naval Ravikant
 
 
Be brave enough to live the life of your dreams according to your vision and purpose
 
instead of the expectations and opinions of others.
 
 
Roy T. Bennett
 
 
The more you know who you are, and what you want, the less you let things upset
 
you.
 
 
Stephanie Perkins
 
 
You can't go back and change the beginning, but you can start where you are and
 
change the ending.
 
C.S. Lewis
 
 
You couldn’t relive your life, skipping the awful parts, without losing what made it
 
worthwhile. You had to accept it as a whole–like the world, or the person you loved.
 
Stewart O’Nan
 
 
Life is a question and how we live it is our answer.
 
Gary Keller
 
 
See: it’s a never-ending upward spiral. And if you think at any point you’re allowed to
 
stop climbing, I’m afraid you’re missing the point. Because the joy is in the climb
 
itself.
 
Mark Manson
 
 
Don’t be afraid of death; be afraid of an unlived life. You don’t have to live forever,
 
you just have to live.
 
 
Natalie Babbitt
 
 
Life is not a problem to be solved, but a reality to be experienced.
 
 
Soren Kierkegaard
 
 
Most of life is about searching, it’s not about doing. People spend too much time
 
doing and not thinking about what they should be doing.
 
Naval Ravikant
 
 
Care about what other people think and you will always be their prisoner.
 
Lao Tzu
 
 
No tree, it is said, can grow to heaven unless its roots reach down to hell.
 
 
Carl Jung
 
 
Nothing in life is to be feared, it is only to be understood. Now is the time to
 
understand more, so that we may fear less.
 
 
Marie Curie
 
 
In the end, it’s not the years in your life that count. It’s the life in your years.
 
 
Abraham Lincoln
 
 
Some people never go crazy. What truly horrible lives they must lead.
 
Charles Bukowski
 
 
To live is the rarest thing in the world. Most people exist, that is all.
 
Oscar Wilde
 
 
You don’t get to choose how you’re going to die. Or when. But you can decide how
 
you’re going to live now.
 
 
Joan Baez
 
 
Not how long, but how well you have lived is the main thing.
 
 
Seneca
 
 
Life is not a process of discovery, but a process of creation.
 
 
Neale Donald Walsch
 
 
It’s not so much what we have in this life that matters. It’s what we do with what we
 
have.
 
 
Fred Rogers
 
 
Keep smiling, because life is a beautiful thing and there’s so much to smile about.
 
Marilyn Monroe
 
 
The whole secret of a successful life is to find out what is one’s destiny to do, and
 
then do it.
 
Henry Ford
 
 
A man can fail many times, but he isn’t a failure until he begins to blame somebody
 
else.
 
 
Jeff Olson
 
 
It's not what we have in life but who we have in our life that matters.
 
Margaret Laurence
 
 
Life always waits for some crisis to occur before revealing itself at its most brilliant.
 
Paulo Coelho
 
 
Life is really simple, but men insist on making it complicated.
 
 
Confucius
 
 
Life is like a coin. You can spend it any way you wish, but you only spend it once.
 
 
Lillian Dickson
 
 
The less you give a damn to negative people, the more peaceful your life will become.
 
 
Jeremiah Say
 
 
Don't give it five minutes if you're not going to give it five years.
 
Meghan Markle
​
 
 
Dead people receive more flowers than the living ones because regret is stronger than
 
gratitude.
 
 
Anne Frank
 
 
I've failed over and over and over again in my life and that is why I succeed.
 
Martin Luther King, Jr.
 
 
In every life, we have some trouble, but when you worry you make it double.
 
 
Bobby Mcferrin
 
 
The hardest thing to learn in life is which bridge to cross and which bridge to burn.
 
David Russell
 
 
Life doesn’t require that we be the best, only that we try our best.
 
H. Jackson Brown Jr.
 
 
The best and most beautiful things in this world cannot be seen or even heard, but
 
must be felt with the heart.
 
Helen Keller
 
 
A life spent making mistakes is not only more honorable, but more useful than a life
 
spent doing nothing.
 
 
George Bernard Shaw
 
 
My mission in life is not merely to survive, but to thrive; and to do so with some
 
passion, some compassion, some humor, and some style.
 
Maya Angelou
 
 
Life's most persistent and urgent question is, '"What are you doing for others?"
 
Martin Luther King, Jr.
 
 
The flower that blooms in adversity is the rarest and most beautiful of all.
 
 
Mulan
 
 
Life is short, live it. Love is rare, grab it. Anger is bad, dump it. Fear is awful, face it.
 
Memory is sweet, cherish it.
 
 
Jeremiah Say
 
 
The greatest discovery of any generation is that a human being can alter his life by
 
altering his attitude.
 
William James
 
 
Loving people live in a loving world. Hostile people live in a hostile world. Same
 
world.
 
Wayne Dyer
 
 
If you don't like the road you're walking, start paving another one.
 
Dolly Parton
 
 
Life is not a matter of holding good cards, but sometimes, playing a poor hand well.
 
Jack London
 
 
The biggest adventure you can take is to live the life of your dreams.
 
Oprah Winfrey
 
 
A little foolishness, enough to enjoy life, and a little wisdom to avoid the errors, that
 
will do.
 
Osho
 
 
A man who dares to waste one hour of time has not discovered the value of life.
 
Charles Darwin
 
 
The things you do for yourself are gone when you are gone, but the things you do for
 
others remain as your legacy.
 
 
Kalu Ndukwe Kalu
 
 
By being yourself, you put something wonderful in the world that was not there
 
before.
 
Edwin Elliot
 
 
Life moves pretty fast. If you don’t stop and look around once in a while you could
 
miss it.
 
Ferris Bueller
 
 
The first half of life is devoted to forming a healthy ego, the second half is going
 
inward and letting go of it.
 
Carl Jung
 
 
Cry. Forgive. Learn. Move on. Let your tears water the seeds of your future
 
happiness.
 
Steve Maraboli
 
 
The only impossible journey is the one you never begin.
 
Tony Robbins
 
 
Life must be lived and curiosity kept alive. One must never, for whatever reason, turn
 
his back on life.
 
Eleanor Roosevelt
 
 
Life is pretty simple: You do some stuff. Most fails. Some works. You do more of what
 
works.
 
Leonardo da Vinci
 
 
Don’t gain the world and lose your soul, wisdom is better than silver or gold.
 
Bob Marley
 
 
Risks must be taken, because the greatest hazard in life is to risk nothing.
 
 
Leo Buscaglia
 
 
The most beautiful things in the world cannot be seen or even touched. They must be
 
felt with the heart.
 
Helen Keller
 
 
Take time to enjoy the little things, for one day you may look back and realize they
 
were the big things.
 
 
Robert Brault
 
 
It is better to be hated for what you are than to be loved for something you are not.
 
 
Andre Gide
 
 
To do the useful thing, to say the courageous thing, to contemplate the beautiful
 
thing: that is enough for one man’s life.
 
T.S. Eliot
 
 
Life is short, and it is up to you to make it sweet.
 
Sarah Louise Delany
 
 
Life is just the same as learning to swim. Do not be afraid of making mistakes, for
 
there is no other way of learning how to live!
 
Alfred Adler
 
 
Be willing to sacrifice what you think you have today for the life that you want
 
tomorrow.
 
Neil Strauss
 
 
Lighten up, just enjoy life, smile more, laugh more, and don’t get so worked up about
 
things.
 
Kenneth Branagh
 
 
The aim of life is to live, and to live means to be aware, joyously, drunkenly, serenely,
 
divinely aware.
 
Henry Miller
 
 
You must be the change you wish to see in the world.
 
Mahatma Gandhi
 
 
Try to enjoy the great festival of life with other men!
 
Epictetus
 
 
If life is a video game, the graphics are great, but the plot is confusing and the tutorial
 
is way too long.
 
Elon Musk
 
 
Life is so short. I would rather sing one song than interpret the thousand.
 
Jack London
 
The first half of life is devoted to forming a healthy ego, the second half is going
 
inward and letting go of
 
